
  2, White Hart Street,
  Paternoster Square, E.C.


  WHITTAKER & CO.'S LIST OF

  Classical, Educational,
  and Technical Works.




CONTENTS.


  Atlases                                            12
  Arithmetic                                         17
  Bibliotheca Classica                                4
  Cambridge Greek and Latin Texts                     8
  Cambridge Texts with Notes                          7
  English Language                                   12
  Euclid                                             18
  French                                             18
  ---- French Series                                 21
  ---- French Classics                               21
  ---- Mercantile Correspondence                     28
  ---- Modern French Authors                         22
  German                                             22
  ---- German Classics                               24
  ---- Mercantile Correspondence                     28
  ---- Modern German Authors                         24
  Grammar School Classics                             5
  Greek                                              10
  Greek Classics                                    4-9
  Italian                                            26
  Latin                                              11
  ---- Classics                                     4-9
  Lower Form Series                                   6
  Mercantile Correspondence                          28
  Miniature Reference Library                        34
  Minor Arts and Industries                           3
  Miscellaneous Educational Books                    14
  Pinnock's Catechisms                               15
  Russian                                            27
  Science                                            30
  Shakespeare                                        13
  Spanish                                            27
  Specialist's Series                                28
  Students' Editions of the Gospels and the Acts     11
  Technical School and College Building              32
  Technological Dictionaries                         31
  Whittaker's Library of Arts, etc.                  30

_July, 1889._




Mr. Leland's Educational Publications.

_Third Edition, Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6s._

PRACTICAL EDUCATION.

A WORK ON PREPARING THE MEMORY, DEVELOPING QUICKNESS OF PERCEPTION, AND
TRAINING THE CONSTRUCTIVE FACULTIES.

By CHARLES G. LELAND.

_Author of "The Minor Arts," "Twelve Manuals of Art Work," "The Album of
Repoussé Work," "Industrial Art in Education, or Circular No. 4, 1882,"
"Hints on Self-Education," etc._

Mr. Leland was the first person to introduce _Industrial Art_ as a branch
of education in the public schools of America. The Bureau of Education at
Washington, observing the success of his work, employed him in 1862 to
write a pamphlet showing how hand-work could be taken or taught in schools
and families. It is usual to issue only 15,000 of these pamphlets, but so
great was the demand for this that in two years after its issue more than
60,000 were given to applicants. This work will be found greatly enlarged
in "Practical Education." Owing to it thousands of schools, classes, or
clubs of industrial art were established in England, America and Austria.
As at present a great demand exists for information as to organizing
Technical Education, this forms the first part of the work. In it the
author indicates that all the confusion and difference of opinion which at
present prevails as to this subject, may very easily be obviated by simply
beginning by teaching the youngest the easiest arts of which they are
capable, and by thence gradually leading them on to more advanced work.

"The basis of Mr. Leland's theory," says a reviewer, "is that before
learning, children should acquire the art of learning. It is not enough to
fill the memory, memory must first be created. By training children to
merely memorize, extraordinary power in this respect is to be attained in
a few months. With this is associated exercises in quickness of
perception, which are at first purely mechanical, and range from merely
training the eye to mental arithmetic, and problems in all branches of
education. Memory and quickness of perception blend in the development of
the constructive faculties or hand-work. Attention or interest is the
final factor in this system."

"_Mr. Leland's book will have a wide circulation. It deals with the whole
subject in such a downright practical fashion, and is so much the result
of long personal experience and observation, as to render it a veritable
mine of valuable suggestions._"--BRITISH ARCHITECT.

"_It has little of the dryness usually associated with such books; and no
teacher can read its thoughtful pages without imbibing many valuable
ideas._"--SCOTTISH EDUCATIONAL NEWS.

"_Strongly to be recommended._"--CHEMICAL NEWS.

"_This valuable little work._"--LIVERPOOL DAILY POST.

"_Many of Mr. Leland's suggestions might be carried out advantageously
among the young folks in our large towns and villages._"--NORTHERN WHIG.




Minor Arts and Industries.

A SERIES OF ILLUSTRATED AND PRACTICAL MANUALS FOR SCHOOL USE AND
SELF-INSTRUCTION.

EDITED BY CHARLES G. LELAND.

This series of manuals on "The Minor Arts and Industries" is designed on
the lines laid down in Mr. Leland's treatise on education. Each handbook
will present the subject with which it deals in a thoroughly popular and
practical manner; the lessons carry the student on his road step by step
from the veriest elements to the point where the most advanced works fitly
find their place in his course of study; in short, the greatest pains are
taken to ensure a thorough mastery of the rudiments of each subject, and
to so clearly state each lesson, illustrating it where necessary by plans
and drawings, that even very young children may be interested in and
trained to practical work. On similar grounds the self-taught student will
find these manuals an invaluable aid to his studies.

_Part 1 now ready. Paper cover, 1s. or in cloth, 1s. 6d._

DRAWING AND DESIGNING: IN A SERIES OF LESSONS, WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS,

BY CHARLES G. LELAND, M.A., F.R.L.S.

Other volumes will follow at intervals, amongst the subjects of which may
be named--

  WOOD CARVING.
  MODELLING.
  LEATHER WORK.
  METAL WORK.
  CARPENTERING.
  COMMERCE, ETC.




GREEK AND LATIN.


Bibliotheca Classica.

_A Series of Greek and Latin Authors, with English Notes, edited by
eminent Scholars. 8vo._

ÆSCHYLUS. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 8_s._

CICERO'S ORATIONS. By G. Long, M.A. 4 vols. 8_s._ each.

DEMOSTHENES. By R. Whiston, M.A. 2 vols. 8_s._ each.

EURIPIDES. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 3 vols. 8_s._ each.

HERODOTUS. By Rev. J. W. Blakesley, B.D. 2 vols. 12_s._

HESIOD. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 5_s._

HOMER. By F. A. Paley, M.A. Vol. I. 8_s._ Vol. II. 6_s._

HORACE. By Rev. A. J. Macleane, M.A. 8_s._

JUVENAL AND PERSIUS. By Rev. A. J. Macleane, M.A. 6_s._

LUCAN. The Pharsalia. By C. E. Haskins, M.A., and W. E. Heitland, M.A.
14_s._

PLATO. By W. H. Thompson, D.D. 2 vols. 5_s._ each.

SOPHOCLES. Vol. I. By Rev. F. H. Blaydes, M.A. 8_s._

---- Vol. II. Philoctetes--Electra--Ajax and Trachiniæ. By F. A. Paley,
M.A. 6_s._

TACITUS: The Annals. By the Rev. P. Frost. 8_s._

TERENCE. By E. St. J. Parry, M.A. 9_s._

VIRGIL. By J. Conington, M.A. 3 vols. 10_s._ 6_d._ each.

    In some cases the volumes cannot be sold separately. The few copies
    that remain are reserved for complete sets, which may be obtained, at
    present, for 9_l._


Grammar School Classics.

_A Series of Greek and Latin Authors, with English Notes. Fcap. 8vo._

CÆSAR: DE BELLO GALLICO. By George Long, M.A. 4_s._

---- Books I.-III. For Junior Classes. By George Long, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

---- Books IV. and V. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

---- Books VI. and VII. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

CATULLUS, TIBULLUS, AND PROPERTIUS. Selected Poems. With Life. By Rev. A.
H. Wratislaw. 2_s._ 6_d._

CICERO: DE SENECTUTE, DE AMICITIA, and SELECT EPISTLES. By George Long,
M.A. 3_s._

CORNELIUS NEPOS. By Rev. J. F. Macmichael. 2_s._

HOMER: ILIAD. Books I.-XII. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 4_s._ 6_d._

    Books I.-VI., 2_s._ 6_d._; Books VII.-XII., 2_s._ 6_d._

HORACE. With Life. By A. J. Macleane, M.A. 3_s._ 6_d._ In 2 Parts: Odes,
2_s._; Satires and Epistles, 2_s._

JUVENAL: SIXTEEN SATIRES. By H. Prior, M.A. 3_s._ 6_d._

MARTIAL: SELECT EPIGRAMS. With Life. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 4_s._ 6_d._

OVID: The FASTI. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 3_s._ 6_d._

---- Books I. and II. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

---- Books III. and IV. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

---- Books V. and VI. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

SALLUST: CATILINA and JUGURTHA. With Life. By G. Long, M.A., and J. G.
Frazer. 3_s._ 6_d._ Catilina, 2_s._ Jugurtha, 2_s._

TACITUS: GERMANIA and AGRICOLA. By Rev. P. Frost. 2_s._ 6_d._

VIRGIL: BUCOLICS, GEORGICS, and ÆNEID, Books I.-IV. Abridged from
Professor Conington's edition. 4_s._ 6_d._

---- ÆNEID, Books V.-XII. 4_s._ 6_d._

    _Also in 9 separate volumes, 1s. 6d. each._

XENOPHON: The ANABASIS. With Life. By Rev. J. F. Macmichael. 3_s._ 6_d._

    _Also in 4 separate volumes, 1s. 6d. each._

---- The CYROPÆDIA. By G. M. Gorham, M.A. 3_s._ 6_d._

---- Books I. and II. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

---- Books V. and VI. in 1 vol. 1_s._ 6_d._

---- MEMORABILIA. By Percival Frost, M.A. 3_s._

A GRAMMAR-SCHOOL ATLAS OF CLASSICAL GEOGRAPHY, containing Ten selected
Maps. Imperial 8vo. 3_s._

_Uniform with the Series._

THE NEW TESTAMENT, in Greek. With English Notes, &c. By Rev. J. F.
Macmichael. 4_s._ 6_d._ Separate parts, St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke,
St. John, Acts, 6_d._ each, sewed.


Lower Form Series.

_With Notes and Vocabularies._

ECLOGÆ LATINÆ; OR, FIRST LATIN READING-BOOK, WITH ENGLISH NOTES AND A
DICTIONARY. By the late Rev. P. Frost, M.A. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 1_s._
6_d._

LATIN VOCABULARIES FOR REPETITION. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. 2nd Edition,
revised. Fcap. 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._

EASY LATIN PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN TRANSLATION. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A.
Fcap. 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._

VIRGIL'S ÆNEID. Book I. Abridged from Conington's Edition by Rev. J. G.
Sheppard, D.C.L. With Vocabulary by W. F. R. Shilleto. 1_s._ 6_d._ [_Now
ready._

CÆSAR: DE BELLO GALLICO. Book I. With Notes by George Long, M.A., and
Vocabulary by W. F. R. Shilleto. 1_s._ 6_d._ [Book II. _in the press_.

TALES FOR LATIN PROSE COMPOSITION. With Notes and Vocabulary. By G. H.
Wells, M.A. 2_s._

MATERIALS FOR LATIN PROSE COMPOSITION. By the late Rev. P. Frost, M.A. New
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2_s._ Key (for Tutors only), 4_s._

A LATIN VERSE-BOOK. AN INTRODUCTORY WORK ON HEXAMETERS AND PENTAMETERS. By
the late Rev. P. Frost, M.A. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2_s._ Key (for Tutors
only), 5_s._

ANALECTA GRÆCA MINORA, with INTRODUCTORY SENTENCES, ENGLISH NOTES, AND A
DICTIONARY. By the late Rev. P. Frost, M.A. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2_s._

GREEK TESTAMENT SELECTIONS. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. 2nd Edition,
enlarged, with Notes and Vocabulary. Fcap. 8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._


Cambridge Texts with Notes.

_A Selection of the most usually read of the Greek and Latin Authors,
Annotated for Schools. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d. each, with exceptions._

EURIPIDES. ALCESTIS--MEDEA--HIPPOLYTUS--HECUBA--BACCHÆ--ION
(2_s._)--ORESTES--PHOENISSÆ--TROADES--HERCULES FURENS--ANDROMACHE--
IPHIGENIA IN TAURIS--SUPPLICES. By F. A. Paley, M.A., LL.D.

ÆSCHYLUS. PROMETHEUS VINCTUS--SEPTEM CONTRA
THEBAS--AGAMEMNON--PERSÆ--EUMENIDES--CHOEPHOROE. By F. A. Paley, M.A.,
LL.D.

SOPHOCLES. OEDIPUS TYRANNUS--OEDIPUS COLONEUS--ANTIGONE--ELECTRA--AJAX. By
F. A. Paley, M.A., LL.D.

THUCYDIDES. BOOK IV. By. F. A. Paley, M.A., LL.D.

XENOPHON. HELLENICA. BOOK II. By Rev. L. D. Dowdall, M.A.

---- ANABASIS. Edited by Rev. J. F. Macmichael. _New edition_, revised by
J. E. Melhuish, M.A. In 6 vols. Book I. (with Life, Introduction,
Itinerary, &c.); Books II. and III. 2_s._; Book IV., Book V., Book VI.,
Book VII.

HOMER. ILIAD. BOOK I. By F. A. Paley, M.A., LL.D. 1_s._

VIRGIL (abridged from Conington's edition). BUCOLICS: GEORGICS, 2 parts:
ÆNEID, 9 parts.

TERENCE. ANDRIA--HAUTON TIMORUMENOS--PHORMIO--ADELPHOE. By Professor
Wagner, Ph.D.

CICERO. DE SENECTUTE--DE AMICITIA--EPISTOLÆ SELECTÆ. By G. Long, M.A.

OVID. SELECTIONS. By A. J. Macleane, M.A.

_Others in preparation._


Cambridge Greek and Latin Texts.

These Texts, which are clearly printed at the Cambridge University Press,
on good paper, and bound in a handy form, have been reduced in price, and
will now meet the requirements of masters who wish to use Text and Notes
separately.

ÆSCHYLUS. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 2_s._

CÆSAR: DE BELLO GALLICO. By G. Long, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

CICERO: DE SENECTUTE et DE AMICITIA, et EPISTOLÆ SELECTÆ. By G. Long, M.A.
1_s._ 6_d._

CICERONIS ORATIONES. Vol. I. (in Verrem.) By G. Long, M.A. 2_s._ 6_d._

EURIPIDES. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 3 vols., each 2_s._

---- Vol. I.
Rhesus--Medea--Hippolytus--Alcestis--Heraclidæ--Supplices--Troades--Index.

---- Vol. II. Ion--Helena--Andromache--Electra--Bacchæ--Hecuba--Index.

---- Vol. III. Hercules Furens--Phoenissæ--Orestes--Iphigenia in
Tauris--Iphigenia in Aulide--Cyclops--Index.

HERODOTUS. By J. G. Blakesley, B.D. 2 vols., each 2_s._ 6_d._

HOMERI ILIAS. I.-XII. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

HORATIUS. By A. J. Macleane, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

JUVENAL ET PERSIUS. By A. J. Macleane, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

LUCRETIUS. By H. A. J. Munro, M.A. 2_s._

SALLUSTI CRISPI CATILINA ET JUGURTHA. By G. Long, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

SOPHOCLES. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 2_s._ 6_d._

TERENTI COMOEDIÆ. By W. Wagner, Ph.D. 2_s._

THUCYDIDES. By J. G. Donaldson, D.D. 2 vols., each 2_s._

VERGILIUS. By J. Conington, M.A. 2_s._

XENOPHONTIS EXPEDITIO CYRI. By J. F. Macmichael, B.A. 1_s._ 6_d._

NOVUM TESTAMENTUM GRÆCE. By F. H. Scrivener, M.A. 4_s._ 6_d._ An edition
with wide margin for notes, half bound, 12_s._


Annotated Editions.

CICERO'S MINOR WORKS. De Officiis, &c. &c. With English Notes, by W. C.
Tylor, LL.D. 12mo. cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._

VIRGIL'S ÆNEID. With English Notes, by C. Anthon, LL.D. Adapted for use in
English Schools by the Rev. F. Metcalfe, M.A. _New Edition._ 12mo. 7_s._
6_d._


Greek Class Books.

BEATSON'S PROGRESSIVE EXERCISES ON THE COMPOSITION OF GREEK IAMBIC VERSE.
12mo. cloth, 3_s._

DAWSON'S GREEK-ENGLISH LEXICON TO THE NEW TESTAMENT. _New Edition_, by Dr.
Tylor. 8vo. cloth, 9_s._

NOVUM TESTAMENTUM GRÆCE. Textus Stephanici, 1550. Accedunt variæ Lectiones
editionum Bezæ, Elzeviri, Lachmanni, Tischendorfii, Tregellesii, curante
F. H. Scrivener, M.A. 4_s._ 6_d._ An Edition with wide margin for MS.
Notes, 4to. half-bound morocco, 12_s._

---- Textûs Stephanici, A.D. 1550, Cum variis Lectionibus Editionum Bezæ,
Elzeviri, Lachmanni, Tischendorfii, Tregellesii, Westcott-Hortii,
Versionis Anglicanæ Emendatorum, Curante F. H. A. Scrivener, A.M., D.C.L.,
LL.D., Accedunt Parallela S. Scripturæ Loca. Small post 8vo. cloth, pp.
xvi.-598, 7_s._ 6_d._

    EDITIO MAJOR _containing, in addition to the matter in the other
    Edition, the Capitula (majora et minora) and the Eusebian Canons, the
    various Readings of Westcott and Hort, and those adopted by the
    Revisers; also a revised and much-enlarged series of References._

---- VALPY'S. For the use of Schools. 12mo. cloth, 5_s._

---- Edited by Rev. Macmichael. _See Grammar School Classics._


Students' Editions of the Gospels and the Acts.

_Crown 8vo. cloth._

THE GOSPEL OF S. MATTHEW. The Greek Text, with Critical, Grammatical, and
Explanatory Notes, &c., by the late Rev. W. Trollope, M.A., re-edited by
the Rev. W. H. Rowlandson, M.A. 5_s._

GOSPEL OF S. MARK. The Greek Text, with Critical, Grammatical, and
Explanatory Notes, Prolegomena, &c., by Rev. W. H. Rowlandson, M.A. 4_s._
6_d._

GOSPEL OF S. LUKE. The Greek Text, with Critical, Grammatical, and
Explanatory Notes, &c., by the late Rev. W. Trollope, M.A., revised and
re-edited by the Rev. W. H. Rowlandson, M.A. 5_s._

ACTS OF THE APOSTLES. The Greek Text, with Critical, Grammatical, and
Explanatory Notes, and Examination Questions, by Rev. W. Trollope, M.A.,
re-edited and revised by the Rev. G. F. Browne, M.A. 5_s._


Latin Class Books.

BEDFORD'S PROPRIA QUÆ MARIBUS; or, Short Rules for the Genders of Latin
Nouns, and a Latin Prosody. 12mo. 1_s._

BOSSUT'S LATIN WORD BOOK; or, First Step to the Latin Language. 18mo.
1_s._

---- LATIN PHRASE BOOK. 18mo. 1_s._

FLORILEGIUM POETICUM. A Selection of Elegiac Extracts from Ovid and
Tibullus. _New edition_, greatly enlarged with English Notes. By the late
Rev. P. Frost, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. 2_s._

GRADUS AD PARNASSUM; sive novus sinonymorum, epithetorum, versuum, ac
phrasium poeticarum, thesaurus. _New edition._ By G. Pyper. 12mo. cloth,
7_s._

---- BY VALPY. Whittaker's Improved edition. Latin and English. _New
edition._ Royal 12mo. 7_s._ 6_d._

STODDART'S NEW DELECTUS; or, Easy Steps to Latin Construing. For the use
of Pupils commencing the Language. Adapted to the best Latin Grammars,
with a Dictionary attached. _New edition._ 12mo. 4_s._

PENROSE'S (REV. JOHN) Easy Exercises in Latin Elegiac Verse. _New
edition._ 12mo. cloth, 2_s._

---- Key to ditto, for Tutors only, 3_s._ 6_d._


Atlases.

LONG'S ATLAS OF CLASSICAL GEOGRAPHY. Containing Twenty-four Maps.
Constructed by William Hughes, F.R.G.S., and Edited by George Long, M.A.
_New edition_, with Coloured Outlines, and an Index of Places. Royal 8vo.
6_s._

LONG'S GRAMMAR SCHOOL ATLAS OF CLASSICAL GEOGRAPHY. Containing Ten Maps,
selected from the larger Atlas. Constructed by W. Hughes, F.R.G.S., and
edited by George Long, M.A. _New edition_, with Coloured Outlines. Royal
8vo. 3_s._


English Language and Miscellaneous.

ALLEN AND CORNWELL'S SCHOOL GRAMMAR. Cloth, 1_s._ 9_d._

---- GRAMMAR FOR BEGINNERS. Cloth, 1_s._

BELL'S MODERN READER AND SPEAKER. A Selection of Poetry and Prose, from
the Writings of Eminent Authors. 12mo. 3_s._ 6_d._

DUNCAN'S ENGLISH EXPOSITOR; or, Explanatory Spelling-book. Containing an
Alphabetical Collection of all the most useful, proper, and elegant words
in the English language, divided into Syllables, and properly accented.
_New edition._ 12mo. 1_s._ 6_d._

LATHAM'S (R. G.) DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Abridged and
condensed into one volume. 8vo. cloth, 14_s._

MACKAY (C.) A DICTIONARY OF LOWLAND SCOTCH. By Charles Mackay, LL.D. With
an Introductory Chapter on the Poetry, Humour, and Literary History of the
Scottish Language, and an Appendix of Scottish Proverbs. Large post 8vo.
cloth, 7_s._ 6_d._ half bound, 8_s._ 6_d._

---- SELECTED POEMS AND SONGS OF CHARLES MACKAY, LL.D. With a Commendatory
and Critical Introduction by Eminent Writers. Wide foolscap 8vo. half
cloth boards, 1_s._ 6_d._ Sewed, 1_s._

WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Including Scientific,
Technical, and Biblical Words and Terms. _New edition_, with Supplement of
over 4,600 New Words and Meanings. 4to. cloth, 1_l._ 1_s._; half-calf,
1_l._ 10_s._ With Appendices, £1 11_s._ 6_d._; half-calf, 2_l._

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS, with Text and Introduction in English and German.
Edited by C. Sachs, Prof. Ph. D. 8vo. cloth, each Play or Number, 10_d._

_Now Ready_:

   1. Julius Cæsar.
   2. Romeo and Juliet.
   3. King Henry VIII.
   4. King Lear.
   5. Othello.
   6. Hamlet.
   7. A Midsummer Night's Dream.
   8. Macbeth.
   9. King John.
  10. King Richard II.
  11. King Henry IV. I.
  12.   "    "      II.
  13. King Henry V.
  14. King Richard III.
  15. Cymbeline.
  16. Coriolanus.
  17. Antony and Cleopatra.
  18. Merchant of Venice.
  19. Much Ado about Nothing.

_Others to follow._

    "This edition will be quite a godsend to grown-up students of either
    language, for the ordinary class reading books are too childish to
    arrest their attention. The parallel paging saves the labour of using
    a dictionary, and the series is so low in price as to place it within
    the reach of all."--_Saturday Review._

SHAKESPEARE REPRINTS. 1. King Lear. Parallel Texts of Quarto 1 and Folio
1. Edited by Dr. W. Vietor, of Marburg. Square 16mo. cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._

    _The texts of the first quarto and folio, with collations from the
    later quartos and folios, are here printed in a compact and convenient
    volume, intended as a class-book in the University._


Miscellaneous Educational Books.

SEIDEL (ROBT.) INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION: A Pedagogic and Social Necessity.
Crown 8vo. 4_s._

WOODWARD (C. M.) THE MANUAL TRAINING SCHOOL, ITS AIMS, METHODS, AND
RESULTS. With Figured Drawings of Shop Exercises in Woods and Metals. 8vo.
10_s._

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EDUCATION. Hints toward a Select and Descriptive
Bibliography of Education. Arranged by Topics, and Indexed by Authors. By
G. Stanley Hall, Professor, John Hopkins University, and John M.
Mansfield. Post 8vo. cloth, pp. xvi.-309, 7_s._ 6_d._

CHEPMELL'S (REV. DR.) SHORT COURSE OF GRECIAN, ROMAN, AND ENGLISH HISTORY.
_New edition._ 12mo. 5_s._ Questions on, 12mo. 1_s._

COLTON (B. P.) ELEMENTARY COURSE OF PRACTICAL ZOOLOGY. By B. P. Colton,
A.M., Instructor in Biology, Ottawa High School. Crown 8vo. cloth, pp.
xiv.-182, 4_s._ 6_d._

CORNWELL'S SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY. 3_s._ 6_d._ With Thirty Maps on Steel, 5_s._
6_d._

---- GEOGRAPHY FOR BEGINNERS. 1_s._ With Questions, 1_s._ 4_d._

DURHAM UNIVERSITY CALENDAR, with Almanack. Cloth, 1_s._ 6_d._ [_Published
annually._

JOYCE (P. W.) A HANDBOOK OF SCHOOL MANAGEMENT AND METHODS OF TEACHING. By
P. W. Joyce, LL.D., &c. _11th edition, revised._ Cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._

NATURE READERS. Seaside and Wayside. No. 1. By Julia McNair Wright. Cloth,
1_s._ 6_d._

    The first of a Series of Primary Readers for young children. It treats
    of crabs, wasps, spiders, bees, and some univalve molluscs.

PINNOCK'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. From the Invasion of Julius Cæsar. With a
Biographical and Historical Dictionary. Questions for Examination,
Genealogical Tables, Progress of Literature and the Constitution, &c.
Illustrated. Continued by the Rev. W. H. Pinnock, LL.D. _New edition._
12mo. 6_s._

---- HISTORY OF GREECE. With an Introduction on the Natural and Political
Geography of Greece, Dictionary of Difficult Terms, Questions for
Examination, Genealogical Tables, &c. Illustrated. By Dr. W. C. Taylor.
_New edition._ 12mo. 5_s._ 6_d._

---- HISTORY OF ROME. With an Introduction, the Geography of the Roman
Empire, Notices of the Roman Manners, and Illustrations, Questions for
Examination, Chronological Index, &c. Illustrated. By Dr. W. C. Taylor.
_New edition._ 12mo. 5_s._ 6_d._

PINNOCK'S CATECHISMS OF THE ARTS, SCIENCES, AND LITERATURE. Whittaker's
Improved Editions. Illustrated with Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts, carefully
re-edited. 18mo. price 9_d._ each.

    HISTORY.--Modern--Ancient--Universal--Bible and Gospel--Scripture--
    Chronology--England--Scotland--France--America--Rome--Greece--Jews.

    GEOGRAPHY.--Ancient--Modern, Improved Edition--Modern, Original
    Edition--Sacred--England and Wales--Use of the Globes.

    GRAMMAR.--English--French--German--Italian--Latin--Spanish--Greek:
    Part I. Accidence. Part II. Syntax and Prosody--Hebrew.

    MATHEMATICS, &c.--Algebra (two
    Parts)--Arithmetic--Geometry--Navigation--Land Surveying.

    RELIGION.--Religion--Natural Theology--Scripture History--Bible and
    Gospel History.

    FINE ARTS, &c.--Architecture--Drawing--Perspective--Music--Singing.

    LITERATURE.--Mythology--Rhetoric--Logic--British Biography--Classical
    Biography.

    MISCELLANEOUS.--First Catechism--General Knowledge--Intellectual
    Philosophy--Agriculture--English Law--Heraldry--Medicine--Moral and
    Social Duties--Trade and Commerce.

SCHLEYER'S GRAMMAR, with Vocabularies of Volapuk (the Language of the
World), for all Speakers of the English Language. Second (greatly Revised)
Edition. By W. A. Seret, Certificated Teacher of the Universal Language.
Crown 8vo. pp. 420, sewed, 5_s._ 6_d._; cloth, 6_s._ 6_d._

SHUMWAY (E. S.) A DAY IN ANCIENT ROME. With numerous Illustrations. By
Edgar S. Shumway, Professor, Rutger's College, New Brunswick. Small 4to.
cloth, 5_s._

WATTON'S ORIGINAL AIDS TO EDUCATION.

Hand-series of Tablets, in Stiff Covers, 3_d._ each.

  Leading Events of General History.
  Chief Events of Old Testament History.
  Chief Events of New Testament History.
  Prophecies and other Scripture Subjects.
  Chief Events of Grecian History.
  Chief Events of Roman History.
  Chief Events of Eastern Empire.
  Chief Events of German History.
  Chief Events of English History.
  Chief English Battles and Results.
  Chief Events of Scottish History.
  Chief Events of French History.
  Chief Events of Prussian History.
  Chief Events of Russian History.
  Eminent Men of Modern Times.
  Chief Events of Church History.
  Natural System of Botany.
  The Linnæan System of Botany.
  Natural History--Zoology.
  Natural Philosophy.
  Principles of Grammatical Analysis, with Examples.
  Guide to English Parsing, with Examples.
  Abstract of Heathen Mythology.
  Word Formation--Saxon, Latin, and Greek Prefixes, with Examples.
  Chief Grecian and Roman Battles and Results.

LARGE TYPE SERIES OF TABLETS

(20 by 23 inches), embracing Historical, Geographical, and other Subjects,
4_d._ each, for suspension.

WATTON'S SKELETON EXERCISE BOOKS.

For History, Geography, Biography, Analysis, Parsing, and Chronology,
with Script Headings and Specimen Page. Price regulated by the thickness
of the books, 1_s._ and 2_s._ each. Also now ready, a filled Biographical
Exercise Book, 2 Series, each 1_s._ Charts systematically arranged with
date words, 60 pages, cloth, 1_s._ Selected Descriptive Poetry, 1_s._
Object Lessons, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4, 32 pp., in stiff covers, 2_d._ each.


School and University Analyses.

By the Rev. Dr. Pinnock.

AN ANALYSIS OF SCRIPTURE HISTORY; Intended for Readers of Old Testament
History, and the University Examinations; with Maps, Copious Index, and
Examination Questions. 18mo. cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._

AN ANALYSIS OF NEW TESTAMENT HISTORY; Embracing the Criticism and
Interpretation of the original Text; with Questions for Examination. 18mo.
cloth, 4_s._

AN ANALYSIS OF ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY; From the Birth of Christ, to the
Council of Nice, A.D. 325. With Examination Questions. 18mo. cloth, 3_s._
6_d._

ANALYSIS OF ENGLISH CHURCH HISTORY; comprising the Reformation period, and
subsequent events; with Questions of Examination, especially intended for
the Universities and Divinity Students in general. 18mo. cloth, 4_s._
6_d._

A SHORT ANALYSIS OF OLD TESTAMENT HISTORY. With Questions for Schools.
18mo. cloth, 1_s._ 6_d._

A SHORT ANALYSIS OF NEW TESTAMENT HISTORY. With Questions for Schools.
18mo. cloth, 1_s._ 6_d._


Arithmetic and Euclid.

PINNOCK'S ARITHMETICAL TABLES OF MONEY, WEIGHTS, AND MEASURES. With
Questions for Examination, and Explanatory Notes, &c. 18mo. 3_d._

---- FIRST CIPHERING BOOK. Containing Easy Exercises in the First Rules of
Arithmetic. 4to. sewed, 1_s._

RYAN'S CIVIL SERVICE ARITHMETICAL EXAMINATION PAPERS. By L. J. Ryan.
Cloth, 2_s._

---- Key to Ditto. 1_s._ 6_d._

SONNENSCHEIN AND NESBITT'S ARITHMETIC. The Science and Art of Arithmetic
for the use of Schools. Post 8vo. 5_s._ 6_d._ Or separately, Part
I.--Integral. 2_s._ 6_d._ Parts II. and III.--Fractional and Approximate
Calculations. 3_s._ 6_d._ Answers to the Exercises, 1_s._ 6_d._ Exercises
separately. Part I. 1_s._ Parts II. and III. 1_s._ 3_d._

---- A B C OF ARITHMETIC. Teacher's Book, Nos. 1 and 2, each 1_s._
Exercise Book, Nos. 1 and 2, each 4_d._

WALKINGAME'S TUTOR ASSISTANT (FRASER'S). Being a Compendium of Arithmetic
and a Complete Question Book. 12mo. 2_s._ Key, 3_s._

EUCLID, THE FIRST BOOK OF. With an Introduction and Collection of Problems
for the use of Schools. By J. M. Wilson, M.A. _2nd edition._ 4to. 2_s._

EUCLID, THE FIRST SIX BOOKS, together with the ELEVENTH and TWELFTH. From
the Text of Dr. Simson. _New edition_, revised and corrected by S.
Maynard. 18mo. 4_s._




MODERN LANGUAGES.


French.

BARRÈRE (A.) PROFESSOR, R.M.A. Woolwich.

---- RÉCITS MILITAIRES. Selections from modern French authors, with short
biographical introductions in French, and English notes for the use of
army students and others. Crown 8vo. 3_s._

---- PRÉCIS OF COMPARATIVE FRENCH GRAMMAR AND IDIOMS, and Guide to
Examinations. Cloth. _Second edition, revised_, 3_s._ 6_d._

---- JUNIOR GRADUATED FRENCH COURSE affording materials for Translation,
Grammar, and Conversation. Being an introduction to the Graduated French
Course. Cloth, 1_s._ 6_d._

---- ELEMENTS OF FRENCH GRAMMAR AND FIRST STEPS IN IDIOMS. With numerous
Exercises and a Vocabulary, being an Introduction to the Précis of
Comparative French Grammar. Crown 8vo. cloth, 2_s._

BELLENGER'S MODERN FRENCH CONVERSATION. Containing Elementary Phrases and
New Easy Dialogues, in French and English, on the most familiar subjects.
12mo. 2_s._ 6_d._

BOSSUT'S FRENCH WORD BOOK. 18mo. 1_s._

---- FRENCH PHRASE BOOK. 18mo. 1_s._

BOWER. PUBLIC EXAMINATION FRENCH READER. With a Vocabulary to every
extract, suitable for all Students who are preparing for a French
Examination. By A. M. Bower, F.R.G.S., late Master in University College
School, &c. Cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._

    "The book is a very practical and useful one, and it must prove very
    handy for students who are preparing for a French examination, the
    persons for whose special aid it has been specially provided. It would
    also serve admirably for use in schools as a class
    book."--_Schoolmaster._

DELILLE'S FRENCH GRAMMAR. In Two Parts. I.--Accidence. II.--Syntax,
written in French, with Exercises conducive to the speaking of the French
Language, &c. 12mo. 5_s._ 6_d._ Key, 3_s._

---- EASY FRENCH POETRY FOR BEGINNERS; or, Short Selections in Verse on a
Graduated Plan for the Memory. With English Notes. 12mo. 2_s._

DELILLE'S MODÈLES DE POÉSIE FRANÇAIS. With Treatise on French
Versification. _New edition._ 12mo. 6_s._

---- RÉPERTOIRE DES PROSATEURS FRANÇAIS. With Biographical Sketches, &c.
_New edition._ 12mo. 6_s._ 6_d._

---- MANUEL ÉTYMOLOGIQUE; or, an Interpretative Index of the most
recurrent Words in the French Language. 12mo. 2_s._ 6_d._

---- BEGINNER'S OWN FRENCH BOOK. Being a Practical and Easy Method of
Learning the Elements of the French Language. 12mo. cloth, 2_s._ Key,
2_s._

DES CARRIÈRES' FRENCH IDIOMATICAL PHRASES AND FAMILIAR DIALOGUES. Square,
3_s._ 6_d._

DES CARRIÈRES' HISTOIRE DE FRANCE, DEPUIS L'ETABLISSEMENT DE LA MONARCHIE.
Continuée jusqu'au rétablissement de l'Empire sous Napoleon III., par C.
J. Delille. 12mo. 7_s._

DUVERGER'S COMPARISON BETWEEN THE IDIOMS, GENIUS, AND PHRASEOLOGY OF THE
FRENCH AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES. _New edition._ 12mo. 4_s._ 6_d._

GASC (F. E. A.) AN IMPROVED MODERN POCKET DICTIONARY OF THE FRENCH AND
ENGLISH LANGUAGES. _New edition._ 16mo. cloth, 2_s._ 6_d._ Also in 2 vols.
in neat leatherette, 5_s._

---- MODERN FRENCH-ENGLISH AND ENGLISH-FRENCH DICTIONARY. _New edition,
revised._ In 1 vol. 8vo. 10_s._ 6_d._

HAMEL'S NEW UNIVERSAL FRENCH GRAMMAR. _New Edition._ 12mo. 4_s._

---- GRAMMATICAL EXERCISES UPON THE FRENCH LANGUAGE. _New edition._ 12mo.
4_s._ Key, 3_s._

---- FRENCH GRAMMAR AND EXERCISES. _New edition._ 12mo. 5_s._ 6_d._ Key,
4_s._

LEVIZAC'S DICTIONARY OF THE FRENCH AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES. _New edition_,
by N. Lambert. 12mo. 6_s._ 6_d._

NUGENT'S POCKET DICTIONARY OF THE FRENCH AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES. _New
edition_, revised by J. C. J. Tarver. _Pearl edition_, 4_s._ 6_d._

OLLENDORFF'S (Dr. H. G.) NEW METHOD OF LEARNING TO READ, WRITE, AND SPEAK
A LANGUAGE IN SIX MONTHS. Adapted to the French. _New edition._ 12mo.
6_s._ 6_d._ Key, 8vo. 7_s._

PRACTICAL COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENCE. _See Miscellaneous._


Whittaker's French Series.

For the use of Schools and Private Students. Edited by A. Barrère, Prof.
R.M.A. Woolwich, &c., and others. Each number with a literary Introduction
and Arguments in English, foot-notes explaining the more difficult
passages, and translations of the idiomatic expressions into the
corresponding English idioms.

Fcap. 8vo, each number, sewed, 6_d._; cloth, 9_d._

_Now Ready_:--

1. SCRIBE. LE VERRE D'EAU. Barrère.

2. MOLIERE. LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME. Gasc.

3. MOLIERE. L'AVARE. Gasc.

4. SOUVESTRE. SOUS LA TONNELLE. Desages.

5. MOLIERE. LE MISANTHROPE. Gasc.

6. GALLAND. ALI BABA. Clare.

7. CORNEILLE. LE CID. Gasc.

8, 9. LAMARTINE. JEANNE D'ARC. Barrère.

10, 11. PIRON. LA METROMANIE. Delbos.

_Others to follow._


Whittaker's French Classics, with English Notes.

_Fcap. 8vo. cloth._

AVENTURES DE TELEMAQUE. Par Fénélon. _New edition._ Edited and revised by
C. J. Delille. 2_s._ 6_d._

HISTOIRE DE CHARLES XII. Par Voltaire. _New edition._ Edited and revised
by L. Direy. 1_s._ 6_d._

PICCIOLA. Par X. B. Saintine. _New edition._ Edited and revised by Dr.
Dubuc. 1_s._ 6_d._

SELECT FABLES OF LA FONTAINE. _New edition._ Edited by F. Gasc, M.A. 1_s._
6_d._


Whittaker's Series of Modern French Authors.

_WITH INTRODUCTION AND NOTES._

_For Beginners._

LA BELLE NIVERNAISE. Histoire d'un vieux bateau et de son équipage. By
Alphonse Daudet. With 6 illustrations. Edited by James Boïelle, Senior
French Master at Dulwich College. 2_s._ 6_d._ [_Ready._

_For Advanced Students._

BUG JARGAL. By Victor Hugo. Edited by James Boïelle, Senior French Master
at Dulwich College. 3_s._ [_Ready._

_Others to follow._


German.

FLÜGEL'S COMPLETE DICTIONARY OF THE GERMAN AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES.
Comprising the German and English, and English and German. Adapted to the
English Student, with great Additions and Improvements. By C. A. Feiling,
A. Heimann, and J. Oxenford. _New edition._ 2 vols. 8vo. 1_l._ 1_s._

---- ABRIDGED GERMAN AND ENGLISH, AND ENGLISH AND GERMAN DICTIONARY.
Carefully compiled from the larger Dictionary. By C. A. Feiling and J.
Oxenford. _New edition._ Royal 18mo. 6_s._

GRENFELL'S ELEMENTARY GERMAN EXERCISES. Part I. Adapted to the Rugby
School German Accidence. 12mo. 1_s._ 6_d._

OLLENDORFF'S (Dr. H. S.). NEW METHOD OF LEARNING TO READ, WRITE, AND SPEAK
A LANGUAGE IN SIX MONTHS. Adapted to the German. _New edition._ Crown 8vo.
7_s._ Key, 8vo. 7_s._

SHELDON (E. S.) A SHORT GERMAN GRAMMAR FOR HIGH SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES.
Crown 8vo. 3_s._

WHITTAKER'S COURSE OF MODERN GERMAN. By F. Lange, Ph.D., Professor, R.M.A.
Woolwich, Examiner in German to the College of Preceptors, London;
Examiner in German at the Victoria University, Manchester, and J. F.
Davis, M.A., D.Lit. Extra fcap. 8vo. cloth.

A CONCISE GERMAN GRAMMAR. With especial reference to Phonology,
Comparative Philology, English and German Correspondences, and Idioms. By
Frz. Lange, Ph.D., Professor at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. In
three Parts. Part I., Elementary, 2_s._ Part II., Intermediate, 2_s._ Part
III. in the press.

ELEMENTARY GERMAN READER. A Graduated Collection of Readings in Prose and
Poetry. With English Notes and a Vocabulary. By F. Lange, Ph.D. 1_s._
6_d._

ADVANCED GERMAN READER. A Graduated Collection of Readings in Prose and
Poetry. With English Notes and a Vocabulary. By F. Lange, Ph.D. and J. F.
Davis, M.A., D.Lit. [_Nearly ready._

PROGRESSIVE GERMAN EXAMINATION COURSE. In Three Parts. By F. Lange, Ph.D.,
Prof. R.M.A., Woolwich, Examiner in German to the College of Preceptors.

    Comprising the Elements of German Grammar, an Historical Sketch of the
    Teutonic Languages, English and German Correspondences, Materials for
    Translation, Dictation, Extempore, Conversation and complete
    Vocabularies.

        1. ELEMENTARY COURSE. Cloth, 2_s._

        2. INTERMEDIATE COURSE. Cloth, 2_s._

        3. ADVANCED COURSE. Second revised edition. Cloth, 1_s._ 6_d._

    "We cordially commend it as a useful help to examiners, who will find
    it well adapted to their needs."--_Practical Teacher._

_In Preparation._

GERMAN CONVERSATIONAL DICTIONARY. A Guide to Modern German Conversation.
For the Every-day Purposes of Travellers and Students. By G. May and J. F.
Davis, M.A., D.Lit.


German Classics, with English Notes.

_Fcap. 8vo. cloth._

GERMAN BALLADS. From Uhland, Goethe, and Schiller. With Introductions to
each Poem, copious Explanatory Notes, and Biographical Notices. By C.
Bielefeld. 1_s._ 6_d._

GOETHE'S HERMANN AND DOROTHEA. With Short Introduction, Argument, and
Notes Critical and Explanatory. By Ernest Bell and E. Wölfel. 1_s._ 6_d._

SCHILLER'S MAID OF ORLEANS. With Introduction and Notes. By Dr. Wagner.
1_s._ 6_d._

---- MARIA STUART. With Introduction and Notes. By V. Kastner, M.A. 1_s._
6_d._

---- WALLENSTEIN. Complete Text. _New edition._ With Notes, Arguments, and
an Historical and Critical Introduction. By C. A. Buchheim, Professor,
Ph.D., 5_s._ Or separately--Part I.--THE LAGER AND DIE PICCOLOMINI. 2_s._
6_d._ Part II.--WALLENSTEIN'S TOD. 2_s._ 6_d._


Whittaker's Series of Modern German Authors.

_With Introduction and Notes. Edited by F. Lange, Ph.D., Professor, Royal
Military Academy, Woolwich._

The attention of the heads of Colleges and Schools is respectfully
directed to this new Series of "MODERN GERMAN AUTHORS" which is intended
to supply the much-felt want of suitable Reading Books for English
Students of German who have passed through the preliminary stages of
fables and anecdotes.

To those who wish to extend their linguistic and grammatical knowledge,
these volumes will afford, in one respect, a great advantage over those of
an earlier period, presenting, as they do, the compositions of the best
living, or only recently deceased authors. The Notes, besides etymological
and other explanations, will contain many useful idiomatic expressions
suggested by the text, and worth committing to memory.

_FIRST SERIES._

FOR BEGINNERS. Edited, with a Grammatical Introduction, Notes, and a
Vocabulary, by F. Lange, Ph.D., Professor, R.M.A. Woolwich, Examiner in
German to the College of Preceptors, and H. Hager, Ph.D., Examiner in
German to the London University.

HEY'S FABELN FÜR KINDER. Illustrated by O. Speckter. Edited, with an
Introduction, Grammatical Summary, Words, and a complete Vocabulary. By F.
Lange, Ph.D., Professor. 1_s._ 6_d._

THE SAME, with a Phonetic Introduction, Phonetic Transcription of the
Text. By F. Lange, Professor, Ph.D. 2_s._

_SECOND SERIES._

FOR INTERMEDIATE STUDENTS. Edited, with a Biographical Introduction,
Notes, and a complete vocabulary, by F. Lange, Ph.D., Professor, and H.
Hager, Ph.D.

DOKTOR WESPE. Lustspiel in fünf Aufzügen von JULIUS RODERICH BENEDIX.
Edited by F. Lange, Ph.D., Professor. 2_s._ 6_d._

SCHILLER'S JUGENDJAHRE. Erzählung von FRZ. HOFFMANN. Edited by H. Hager,
Ph.D., Professor. [_In the press._

_THIRD SERIES._

FOR ADVANCED STUDENTS. Edited, with a Literary Introduction and Notes, by
F. Lange, Ph.D., Professor, R.M.A. Woolwich, in co-operation with F.
Storr, B.A.; A. A. Macdonell, M.A.; H. Hager, Ph.D.; C. Neuhaus, Ph.D. and
others.

MEISTER MARTIN, der Küfner. Erzählung von E. T. A. Hoffman. Edited by F.
Lange, Ph.D., Professor, Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. 1_s._ 6_d._

HANS LANGE. Schauspiel von Paul Heyse. Edited by A. A. Macdonell, M.A.,
Ph.D., Taylorian Teacher, University, Oxford. 2_s._

AUF WACHE. Novelle von Berthold Auerbach. DER GEFRORENE KUSS. Novelle von
Otto Roquette. Edited by A. A. Macdonell, M.A. 2_s._

DER BIBLIOTHEKAR. Lustspiel von G. von Moser. Edited by F. Lange, Ph.D.
Second revised Edition. 2_s._

EINE FRAGE. Idyll von George Ebers. Edited by F. Storr, B.A., Chief Master
of Modern Subjects in Merchant Taylor's School. 2_s._

DIE JOURNALISTEN. Lustspiel von Gustav Freytag. Edited by Professor F.
Lange, Ph.D. Second revised Edition. 2_s._ 6_d._

ZOPF UND SCHWERT. Lustspiel von Karl Gutzkow. Edited by Professor F.
Lange, Ph.D. 2_s._ 6_d._

GERMAN EPIC TALES IN PROSE. I. Die Nibelungen, von A. F. C. Vilmar.--II.
Walther und Hildegund, von Albert Richter. Edited by Karl Neuhaus, Ph.D.,
the International College, Isleworth. 2_s._ 6_d._


Italian.

BARETTI'S DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH AND ITALIAN LANGUAGES. To which is
prefixed an Italian and English Grammar. _New Edition_, entirely
rewritten. By G. Comelati and J. Davenport. 2 vols. 8vo. 1_l._ 1_s._

GRAGLIA'S NEW POCKET DICTIONARY OF THE ITALIAN AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES. With
considerable Additions, and a Compendious Elementary Italian Grammar.
18mo. 4_s._ 6_d._

OLLENDORFF'S (DR. H. G.) NEW METHOD OF LEARNING TO READ, WRITE, AND SPEAK
A LANGUAGE IN SIX MONTHS. Adapted to the Italian. _New Edition._ Crown
8vo. 7_s._ Key, 8vo. 7_s._

SOAVE'S NOVELLE MORALI. _New Edition._ 12mo. 4_s._

VENERONI'S COMPLETE ITALIAN GRAMMAR. By P. Rosteri. 12mo. 6_s._

VERGANI AND PIRANESI'S ITALIAN AND ENGLISH GRAMMAR. With Exercises, &c. By
J. Guichet. _New edition_, by Signor A. Tommasi. 12mo. 5_s._ Key, 3_s._


Russian.

DOLBESHOFF (E.) A DICTIONARY OF THE RUSSIAN AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES. In two
volumes. Vol. I. Russian-English. Vol. II. English-Russian. Compiled by E.
Dolbeshoff in co-operation with C. E. Turner, Professor of English
Language and Literature at the University, St. Petersburg. [_Preparing._


Spanish.

NEUMAN AND BARETTI'S SPANISH AND ENGLISH, AND ENGLISH AND SPANISH
DICTIONARY. Revised and enlarged by M. Seoane, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. 1_l._
8_s._

---- POCKET DICTIONARY. Spanish and English, and English and Spanish.
Compiled from the larger work. 18mo. 5_s._

OLLENDORFF'S (DR. H. G.) NEW METHOD OF LEARNING TO READ, WRITE, AND SPEAK
A LANGUAGE IN SIX MONTHS. Adapted to the Spanish. _New edition._ 8vo.
12_s._ Key, 8vo. 7_s._

PONCE DE LEON'S ENGLISH-SPANISH TECHNOLOGICAL DICTIONARY. 8vo. 1_l._
16_s._ _See page 31._


Practical Mercantile Correspondence.

A Collection of Commercial Letters and Forms, with Notes, Explanatory and
Grammatical, and a Vocabulary of Commercial Terms, edited by L. Simon,
Chr. Vogel, Ph.D., H. P. Skelton, W. C. Wrankmore, Leland Mason, and
others. Intended as Class Books for Schools and for Self-Instruction.

_Now Ready, crown 8vo, cloth:_

ENGLISH, with German Notes, 3_s._

GERMAN, with English Notes, 3_s._

ENGLISH, with French Notes, 4_s._ 6_d._

FRENCH, with English Notes, 4_s._ 6_d._

This new Collection of Model Letters and Epistolary Forms embraces the
whole sphere of Commercial Transactions. Each example is provided with
such remarks and explanations, that any one with a fair grammatical
knowledge of the particular language will find it an easy matter to
prepare a well-expressed letter.


The Specialist's Series.

_A New Series of Handbooks for Students and Practical Engineers. Crown
8vo. With many Illustrations._

GAS ENGINES. Their Theory and Management. By William Macgregor. With 7
Plates. Crown 8vo. pp. 245, 8_s._ 6_d._

BALLOONING: A Concise Sketch of its History and Principles. From the best
sources, Continental and English. By G. May. With Illustrations. Crown
8vo. pp. vi.-97, 2_s._ 6_d._

ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY, and its Transformation, Subdivision, and
Distribution. A Practical Handbook by Gisbert Kapp, C.E., Associate Member
of the Institution of Civil Engineers, &c. With 119 Illustrations. Crown
8vo. pp. xi.-331. 7_s._ 6_d._

ARC AND GLOW LAMPS. A Practical Handbook on Electric Lighting. By Julius
Maier, Ph.D., Assoc. Soc. Tel. Eng., &c. With 78 Illustrations. Crown 8vo.
pp. viii.-376. 7_s._ 6_d._

ON THE CONVERSION OF HEAT INTO WORK. A Practical Handbook on Heat-Engines.
By William Anderson, M. Inst. C.E. With 64 Illustrations. Pp. viii.-254.
Cr. 8vo. 6_s._

SEWAGE TREATMENT, PURIFICATION AND UTILIZATION; A Practical Manual for the
Use of Corporations, Local Boards, Officers of Health, Inspectors of
Nuisances, Chemists, Manufacturers, Riparian Owners, Engineers and
Ratepayers. By J. W. Slater, F.E.S., Editor of "Journal of Science." Crown
8vo. cloth, price 6_s._

THE TELEPHONE. By W. H. Preece, F.R.S., and J. Maier, Ph.D. With numerous
illustrations. Cr. 8vo. 12_s._ 6_d._

MANURES, OR THE PHILOSOPHY OF MANURING. By Dr. A. B. Griffiths, F.R.S.Ed.,
F.C.S., Principal and Lecturer on Chemistry in the School of Science,
Lincoln, &c., &c. Cr. 8vo. 7_s._ 6_d._

HYDRAULIC MOTORS: TURBINES AND PRESSURE MOTORS. By George R. Bodmer,
Assoc. M.Inst.C.E. 14_s._

ALTERNATING CURRENTS OF ELECTRICITY. By Thomas H. Blakesley, M.A.,
M.Inst.C.E. 4_s._ 6_d._

_In preparation._

GALVANIC BATTERIES. By Professor George Forbes, M.A.

INDUCTION COILS. By Professor A. J. Fleming, M.A., D.Sc.

THE DYNAMO. By Guy C. Fricker.

_Others to follow._

       *       *       *       *       *

NIPHER (F. E.) THEORY OF MAGNETIC MEASUREMENTS, WITH AN APPENDIX ON THE
METHOD OF LEAST SQUARES. One volume. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5_s._

PLANTÉ (G.) THE STORAGE OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY, and Researches in the
Effects created by Currents combining Quantity with High Tension.
Translated from the French by Paul Bedford Elwell. With Portrait, and 89
Illustrations. 8vo. pp. vii.-268, cloth, 12_s._


_Small crown 8vo. cloth. With many Illustrations._

Whittaker's Library of Arts, Sciences, Manufactures and Industries.

MANAGEMENT OF ACCUMULATORS AND PRIVATE ELECTRIC LIGHT INSTALLATIONS. A
Practical Handbook by Sir David Salomons, Bart., M.A. 4th Edition, Revised
and Enlarged, with 32 Illustrations. Cloth, 3_s._

    "To say that this book is the best of its kind would be a poor
    compliment, as it is practically the only work on accumulators that
    has been written."--_Electrical Review._

ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT-MAKING FOR AMATEURS. A Practical Handbook. By S. R.
Bottone, Author of "The Dynamo," &c. With 60 Illustrations. Third edition.
Cloth, 3_s._

ELECTRIC BELLS AND ALL ABOUT THEM. A Practical Book for Practical Men. By
S. R. Bottone. With more than 100 illustrations. Cloth, 3_s._

PRACTICAL IRON FOUNDING. By the Author of "Pattern Making," &c., &c.
Illustrated with over one hundred engravings. Cloth, 4_s._

THE PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS FROM LIGHTNING. A Treatise on the Theory of
Lightning Conductors from a Modern Point of View. Being the substance of
two lectures delivered before the Society of Arts in March, 1888. By
Oliver J. Lodge, LL.D., D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of Physics in University
College, Liverpool.

    Published with various amplifications and additions, with the approval
    of the Society of Arts. [_In preparation._

ELECTRICAL INFLUENCE MACHINES: Containing a full account of their
historical development, their modern Forms, and their Practical
Construction. By J. Gray. B.Sc. [_In the press._

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING IN OUR HOMES AND WORKSHOPS. A Practical Handbook.
By Sydney F. Walker, M.Inst.C.E., M.I.E.E. [_Immediately._

_Others in preparation._


Technological Dictionaries.

_ENGLISH AND GERMAN._

WERSHOVEN (F. J.) TECHNOLOGICAL DICTIONARY OF THE PHYSICAL, MECHANICAL,
AND CHEMICAL SCIENCES. English and German. 2 vols. cloth, 5_s._

_ENGLISH-SPANISH._

PONCE DE LEON. TECHNOLOGICAL DICTIONARY. English-Spanish and
Spanish-English. Containing Terms employed in the Applied Sciences,
Industrial Arts, Mechanics, Fine Arts, Metallurgy, Machinery, Commerce,
Ship-building and Navigation, Civil and Military Engineering, Agriculture,
Railway Construction, Electro-technics, &c.

    Vol. I.--English-Spanish. 8vo. bound, £1 16_s._

    Vol. II.--Spanish-English. [_In preparation._

_Post 8vo. 814 pp. 10s. 6d._

HOBLYN'S DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN MEDICINE AND COLLATERAL SCIENCES,
_11th edition._ Revised throughout, with numerous Additions. By John A. P.
Price, B.A., M.D. Oxon., Assistant-Surgeon to the Royal Berkshire
Hospital.

    This new edition has undergone complete revision and emendation. Many
    terms, fallen more or less into disuse, have been omitted; and a
    considerable amount of fresh matter has been introduced, in order to
    meet the requirements of the present day.

_1 vol. demy 4to. with 25 Double and 40 Single Plates, £2 10s._

TECHNICAL SCHOOL AND COLLEGE BUILDING.

_Being a Treatise on the Design and Construction of Applied Science and
Art Buildings, and their suitable Fittings and Sanitation._

WITH A CHAPTER ON TECHNICAL EDUCATION.

BY EDWARD COOKWORTHY ROBINS, F.S.A.

OUTLINE OF CONTENTS.--Introduction--English and Foreign Technical
Education--Analysis of the Second Report of the Royal Commissioners on
Technical Education--Buildings for Applied Science and Art Instruction,
with examples of Foreign and English Buildings--Analysis of the Fittings
necessary for these Buildings--British and Foreign Examples of the Details
of the Fittings--Heating and Ventilation generally--Heating and
Ventilation necessary for Applied Science and Instruction Buildings--The
Planning of Buildings for Middle Class Education--Sanitary
Science--Appendix.

_Full prospectus post free on application._

    "It will prove an indispensable work of reference to architects,
    builders, and managers of technical schools."--_Spectator._

    "A most valuable contribution to architectural literature."--_British
    Architect._


THE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF IRON.

A Complete Account of all the Best Known Methods for the Analysis of Iron,
Steel, Ores, &c.

By A. A. BLAIR, Chief Chemist, U.S. Geological Survey, &c. Royal 8vo.
14_s._

_Just published._


THE

WORKING AND MANAGEMENT OF AN ENGLISH RAILWAY.

BY GEORGE FINDLAY,

_General Manager of the London and North-Western Railway._

WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS.

Crown 8vo. 7_s._ 6_d._


  CHISWICK PRESS:--C. WHITTINGHAM AND CO., TOOKS COURT,
  CHANCERY LANE.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Whittaker & Co.'s List of Classical,
Educational and Technical Works, by Whittaker & Co.

